1. Describe dependency injection, its benefits, and different scopes in ASP.NET Core. 
    Dependecny Injection is a design pattern used to inject a service into class. It can be achieved by constructor injection, property injection or method injection.
    DI is a core part of framework. It provides loose coupling making them independent and easy to modfiy and maintain. 
    It helps in code reusability. 
    ASP.net core DI container managed the lifetime of registered services using different scopes like:
        - AddSingleton<IUserService, UserService>(); // It will create one single instance for the complete application and will be available for all the requests.
        - AddScoped<>(); // It will be created and available for the one complete request. 
        - AddTransient<>(); // It will be created every time service is invoked.

2. Discuss attribute-based and conventional routing in ASP.NET Core. 
    In conventional routing we already define the route template in program.cs like {Controller=Home}/{action}/{id?} for product/details/5
    which is not flexible and difficult to handle for cutom path

    attributes based route defined at controller and method level
    [(Routes={controller})]
    public class abc{
        [HttpGet("details/{id}")]
        public getProductDetails(string id){
        }
    }
    In query parameter we add the paramter after ?id=5&name=rahul
    
3. 
4. How to access and use the HttpContext object within a controller. 
    var requestMethod = HttpContext.Request.Method;

5. What is LINQ (Language Integrated Query)? Explain the difference between IQueryable and IEnumerable interfaces. 
    see linq.txt

6. Explain asynchronous programming, its importance, and how to use await correctly. 
7. Multithreading vs. Asynchronicity:
8. Explain the SOLID principles and how they lead to better software design
    S - Single responsibility principles which means ther should be single object of the class.
    O - open/close principle. Class should be closed for modification but open for extension'
    L - Liskov principle. 
    I = Interface segregation principle. Divide the Interface if all the methods are not required for implementation.
    D - Dependecy inversion principle. High-level modules should not depend on low-level modules; both should depend on abstractions. 
        Abstractions should not depend on details; details should depend on abstractions. 
        This often involves using interfaces and dependency injection.

9. Abstract Classes vs. Interfaces:
    Abstract class can include abstract and non abstract methods. We can create instance of abstract class. 
    Interface can only contain method declaration, no definition and it can be implemented in another class. 

10. Explain the difference between value types (structs, primitives) and reference types (classes) and their implications for memory and performance. 
11. Explain polymorphism, inheritance, and encapsulation, and provide C# examples.
12. Describe what attributes are, how they are used, and the purpose of reflection in .NET. 
13. Explain the CLR's role in managing code execution and memory. 
14. How does the JIT compiler work and what are its benefits in the .NET ecosystem? 
15. Managed vs. Unmanaged Code:
16. Delegate and action in C#
17. Abstrack class Vs Class Vs Interface
18. Access modifier in c#
19. dotnet API pipeline
20. Kestrel vs IIS
21. ref vs out

https://doit.software/blog/net-interview-questions#screen14

C sharp interview question:
-----------------------------


What data types do you know?
The main data types in C# can be divided into value and reference types.

Value types: Include the primitive data types (e.g., int, float, bool, char, byte) and user-defined structs. Store their data directly in memory.
Reference types: Include classes, interfaces, delegates, and arrays. Store a reference (pointer) to the actual data, which is stored on the managed heap.

30. What is the difference between StringBuilder and String?
StringBuilder is a mutable string type, meaning its contents can be modified after creation.
String is an immutable type, meaning its contents cannot be changed once created. StringBuilder is more efficient for concatenating strings, as it avoids the overhead of creating new string objects.

Kestrel vs IIS
--------------------
Kestrel:Purpose: Kestrel is a lightweight, cross-platform web server developed by Microsoft. It is designed to be used as the default web server for ASP.NET Core applications. Characteristics: Cross-Platform: Kestrel is cross-platform and can run on Windows, Linux, and macOS. Lightweight: It is a lightweight and efficient web server that is optimized for hosting ASP.NET Core applications. Integration: While Kestrel is often used in conjunction with other web servers, such as IIS or Nginx, it can also be used as a standalone server. IIS (Internet Information Services):Purpose: IIS is a full-featured web server developed by Microsoft and is primarily used for hosting traditional ASP.NET applications, as well as other types of web applications. Characteristics: Windows-Centric: IIS is closely tied to the Windows operating system and is the default web server for Windows servers. Feature-Rich: It provides a wide range of features, including support for various web technologies, application pools, security features, and more. Integration: IIS can be used in conjunction with other web servers, such as Kestrel, to provide additional features like load balancing, reverse proxying, and SSL termination.